# The tension between tech and the job-market 

Technology is a fascinating philosophical topic. Philosphers go beyond the definition of technology as "useful stuff" and understand that doing technology is a way of philosophizing about the world. This book deals with a large-scale system (the economy), and as this large scale system is technology, the book is pushing forward a very particular philosophical view. 

The economy technology as presented here is very western. This is natural because the western economy is obviously also western. In the western world, technology is often understood as techniques, systems or machines that help us do things with less work or make possible the creation of new things, and in that sense we will write "technology" in what follows.

Technology is clearly dual-use: it can be used for things you like or for things you don't. It has, however, been commonly associated to economic "progress". For economists, technological developments is what improves our productivity (the output per hour worked). And improving our productivity is good because we can work less to get the same stuff or work the same to get more stuff. Many people would argue that getting more stuff is bad, that we consume too much, that the stuff is alienating humans from their true being. While we see the value in the argument (which is that the meaning of life is likely not consumerism), there is suffering caused by inssuficient material conditions. For instance, people working in jobs they hate and commuting more than 2 hours a day to do that are likely suffering. People that need mental health assistance but can't afford it are likely suffering. People that are vulnerable (e.g., with disabilities, young age, or old age) and have insufficient means are probably suffering. This is not to say that the economy would solve most issues, but people seem to be happier in richer countries. Some people might look at food waste or empty appartments and might argue that it makes no sense for people to be homeless or hungry, and yet people are. And these people might even see immediate solutions to those issues (and we would love to see them work), but we do not know what are those. In turn, we propose a more systemic approach to most economical issues that can be gradually implemented without much practical disruption (compared to the impact of the policies). We build upon mainstream economics because we first should agree on how things work before we can agree on what to do.

Said that, let us state that transactions and freedom of contract naturally lead to the existence of the job market. Some people (workers) are payed to do things for others. Communists would say this is exploitation and is wrong. We see this as a fact and discuss not its morality. It is also a fact that most families rely on income from jobs to survive and that unemployment can be traumatic and very negative in some cases \cite. 
At the same time, Acemoglu \cite won the nobel prize in economics with a work that related the institutional strength to economic development. But this link (between institutions and development) is through technology: institutions that oppose technological devleopment fail economicall, and institutions that promote and allow technological disruptions succeed economically. Let us talk now about opportunity cost. We can see these countries "failing" because we can see others "succeeding". But in fact we can imagine "the perfect country" which is way better than any in the world. 



Technique and work are tightly related. However, a feature of technique is that less work is required to produce the same result, or that new results, which no amount of work could previously produce, are now achievable. The first phenomenon lowers the amount of work required, but the second (new things being achievable) increases the amount of work. 

Technology is usually dual-use: it can be used for things you like or for things you don't. In fact, the degrowth movement interprets the results of technological and economic advancement 
