
ok let's write a little about the eonomy. many ideas have been discussed inthe past. i don't know if i can put everything here. but lets' try. first, economics is about distribution. one could be tempted to say it's about production, but people produce because something will be distributed to them, in most cases. if this were not the case, most retirees would be working still. . of course we assume money, private property and the state in different countries, and we will also assume that the countries don't have much international bargaining power. 

this is because we care about uruguay and because we want solutions that do not depend on external parties. although of course international movemente is quite nice, we shouldn't depend on tit. i want to create a playbook that if any country follows then it gets great.

so how to? that's the main question. economics is about distribution. but distribution of what's produced. so there are two main questions, one is how to distribute better, and the other one is how to produce more or better and what to produce.

these questions are really interesting because they're not obvious. regarding distribution, one objective could be utilitarian, maximizing the happiness of the people in the long but not too long term. let's say ten years into the future. that sounds reasonable. because you're thinking about the future you need to also think about incentives. a very provicative idea is that, if incentives are effectively related to production and the distribution, tehrefore the incentives change in a significant way, we should see these effects on production. for instance if we go full communist and everyone gets the same, then we should produce the same for this to make sense, assuming that economic equality is what people want. 

then we have the ultra rich and so on. in the end is about production. for a country, it matters that it can produce ofr its own citizens and not much more. it's interesting because if an applee costs cheaper outside the country than in the country, the country might as well import it, but the worker of the applie in the country that isn't selling anymore should go do something else, because if not imports kill employment. but employment per se is not something to optimize. the big issue here is how do you get the money to pay for stuff. and there are two answers, either you make that money by selling abroad, or you ask for that money. in this case money are resources. in other words, if you want to buy apples from abroad, you should send stuff abroad. there might be an imbalance of payment which is basically transformed into debt. and debt is , in this context, similar to a househol.d some economists say this is not the case, but internationally, and except the other country is taking debt in your local currency, debt acts like a household. it's just a way to smooth out balance of payments. and debt is ok as long as it's used productively. what is debt in the end? is resources given now in exchange for more resources in the future. we're missing here the peace that money is not magical, just money can cause inflation. and inflation might be regulated, they say, by controlling the amount of money in the economy. but in the end the economy is about real people consuming and producing real stuff. and it is very curious to see that in fact, there are bullshit jobs. does that make any sense? it's quite inefficient. and if a person was doing not much and got some mproduction, why not giving the person the production for doing nothing? or even better, starting a business. or even better, a business that can scale internationally. to some extent it's positive that uruguayans can't reallly go work in europe, because if not many young people would leave. there are so many factors at play. but ok, we have that the economy is about distribution, how do we distribute nicely? it's about who gets paid what and for what. and in the end the most important things are the big companies, as they generate a lot of stuff or services. services are also important, like going to the doctor is a service. but they might be a little inflated. then we have the ai trends, llms, agents, and in the future autonomous science and better and better agents. and a rl loop that will make ais actually smart. it's very curious. i'm thinking about rl and more things. the future of production is quite uncertain, in the end is about putting the best machines to work and cutting the best deals. and in particular, i think a country can radically increase its efficiency, which is in the end the souce of economic prosperity, by making a cultural change and some particular changes. for instance, simplifying regulation a lot. that would be awesome. also, integrating ai into workflows in an actually productive way, but also not doing many workflows. we need to remove complexity. adds are complexity. i'm thinking now about details about how to tax ads. because there are a lot of innefficiencies, and one should look at big scale, general, simple solutions. will tehy work? i'm not completely sure, during my phd many things failed. but ok. i liked the questions of pablo arbelaez, although he was a little nerd. i liked him. i might answer generically, who cares. thank you. wanna sleep now. but tax wealth and income not work and not corporations, make the exit tax, close loopholes, make people not think about this stuff anymore. 