The objective of this book is to explain economics so you and your people can influence politicians. Big part of our wellbeing is about culture, but the other big part is about material wellbeing, aka economics. And because economics is so poorly understood by politicians and the general public, and because economic policy choices are so critical, this books tries to fill in the gap. In short, most economies are dealing with very important problems (low growth, low living standards, unsustainable state finances) that have remained unaddressed because they need solutions that we haven't yet imagined or are hard to implement. Talking about and defining economic policy is paramount, as our future will be much worse than it should be if the shots aren't called right. In a way, all current problems and the fact that you and you're family are not way richer were caused by the ineptitude of the policy makers 30 years ago.

Why should you read this book? Why can't you simply read other books, papers or chat with an AI? Well, you can. But if you don't have time, I have done it for you, and I have removed what I think is noise. Also, I hope this book is a little less ideological. If you wonder how can something be non-ideological, check out "_Everything you should know about politics but don't_", which describes US politics from a pretty neutral point of view, basically illustrating the arguments on both sides without giving an opinion. Hopefully, as I have come to economics by the end of my PhD in another field (applied math), I can also provide extra value: first, a view on economics built from first principles, and second, a view that I developed recently, long passed my undergrad, when I was less scientifically cautious about accepting what authoritative sources said as true. 

What is economics then? It is all about the production and distribution of stuff. And I say "stuff" because what's a product and what's value are really hard questions that I can't address shortly. People live and while living they interact with their environment and other people. They make things happen, they also consume stuff (oxygen, food, water, shelter, music, roads, energy, etc.). Economics is about our collective doing and consumption. What do we make and how much, when, and who consumes it are the main questions in economics. I will assume a few things that are obviously part of our economic world, namely countries, states and private property. It is pretty obvious, but the ideas here exposed are greatly influenced by modern western philosophy (with minor differences), as it is where I grew up. 

Let me give you a hint of my values.
- First, I value efficiency. To me, doing ways efficiently is doing things well. This doesn't mean we should ignore intangibles. An all utilitarian viewpoint can quickly lead to very inhuman policies. I prefer policies that have a slider between one extreme and the other, because then society can decide where in the Pareto frontier the policy will live, and I need not to be opinionated.
- Second, when looking for truth, theory, data and anecdotical evidence are all valuable, and we want them to agree.
- Third, even though I obviously have my political preferences, I understand that everyone thinks differently and I don't think my own preferences are best. However, I value rationality and dialog. I think humans can agree on basic things (like math) and can reason through things. In other words, I expect you to agree with me as long as you agree with the correctness of the reasoning and the assumptions. I expect you to disagree if you think some key assumption isn't true or another one is missing. In this spirit I'll provide you with an email, with the hope you will correct my reasoning when its wrong or add key assumptions or critiques if you find them pertinent.
- Fourth, even though I like disruption, I try to be realistic. I always thought about how to make the world a better place, but when I was younger I did not really consider the practicality of my ideas. Now I consider that policies that can't be practically implemented are out of the question. This means, most times, gradual implementation. Moreover, we will talk about what policy makers should do, not about how to get them to do it. 

